>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SATURDA
APRIL 19th, THE LATEST ON TH
FERRY DISASTER IN SOUTH KORE
AND THE CONTINUING STALEMATE I
UKRAINE.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
PROMISING CLASS OF DRUGS, WH
ARE AMERICANS PAYING SO MUCH FOR
THEM, WHEN GENERIC VERSIONS AR
ALREADY AVAILABLE IN EUROPE?
NEXT ON "PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND,"
FROM LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK.
>> GOOD EVENING, THANKS FO
JOINING US, AFTER A MEETIN
BETWEEN DEFENSE SECRETARY CHUC
HAGEL AND HIS POLISH
COUNTERPART, THE UNITED STATES
HAS REPORTEDLY AGREED TO SEN
150 GROUND TROOPS TO POLAND FO
MILITARY EXERCISES
THIS AS PART OF NATO'S RESPONS
TO THE CRISIS IN UKRAINE
POLAND IS WEST OF UKRAINE.
THE UNITED STATES WILL HEL
POLAND BOOST AIR DEFENSES.
WORD OF THE DEAL WAS MADE PUBLIC
IN "THE WASHINGTON POST.
THE UKRAINIAN FOREIGN MINISTER
SAID THAT UKRAINE WILL NOT MOV
THIS EASTER WEEKEND AGAINS
PRO-RUSSIAN SEP RATTISTS WHO
SEIZED UKRAINIAN GOVERNMEN
BUILDINGS TWO WEEKS AGO.
YESTERDAY HE WARNED WHAT H
CALLED MORE CONCRETE ACTIONS
AGAINST THEM NEXT WEEK
THE ARMED SEPARATISTS HAVE
REFUSED TO LEAVE, DESPITE TH
DEAL CALLING ON THEM TO EN
THEIR OCCUPATION
>>> THE CAPTAIN OF THE FERRY
THAT SANK OFF SOUTH KOREA WA
ARRESTED TODAY ON SUSPICION OF
NEGLIGENCE AND ABANDONING PEOPLE
IN NEED.
HE SAID, I BOW MY HEAD I
APOLOGY TO THE FAMILIES OF THE
VICTIMS.
TWO OTHER CREWIMATES WERE TAKE
INTO CUSTODY, INCLUDING TH
INEXPERIENCED THIRD MATE WHO WAS
AT THE WHEEL WHEN THE SHIP BEGAN
SINKING.
DIVERS HAVE RECOVERED THE BODIES
OF 27 PEOPLE
MOST ARE BELIEVED TO HAVE DIED
AFTER BEING TRAPPED INSIDE
>> JAPAN TOOK STEPS TO INCREAS
SURVEILLANCE ON CHINA, BREAKIN
GROUND ON A RADAR STATION ON A
REMOTE ISLAND CLOSE TO THE
CHINESE MAINLAND
A FORMER JAPANESE MILITARY
OFFICIAL IS TO PROVIDE JAPAN
WITH AN EARLY WARNING SYSTEM FOR
CHINESE MISSILE LAUNCHES
JAPAN AND CHINA ARE INVOLVED I
A DISPUTE OVER OTHER ISLANDS
BOTH COUNTRY CLAIMS.
>>> A U.S. DRONE STRIKE KILLED
12 IN SOUTHERN YEMEN TODAY
THERE WERE CONFLICTING REPORTS
ABOUT WHETHER ALL THOSE KILLED
WERE MEMBERS OF AL QAEDA IN TH
ARABIAN PENINSULA.
THE U.S. HAD NO IMMEDIAT
COMMENT ON THE DRONE STRIKE.
>>> THE UNITED STATES IS
REPORTEDLY STEPPING UP MILITAR
SHIPMENTS TO REBELS IN SYRIA
"THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
REPORTS THE U.S. HAS SEN
ADVANCED MISSILES TO THE REBEL
FOR THE FIRST TIME
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION WAS
RELUCTANT FEARING THE WEAPON
WOULD FALL INTO THE HANDS OF A
QAEDA.
THE LATEST MOVE COMES AS BASHA
AL ASSAD CONTINUE TO GAI
AGAINST THE REBELS
>>> PEOPLE WHO HAVE ENROLLED FOR
HEALTH CARE ON A GOVERNMEN
WEBSITE ARE BEING TOLD TO CHANGE
THEIR PASSWORDS.
THIS AFTER THEY WERE ASKED I
THE GOVERNMENT WAS SUBJECT T
THE HEART-BLEED VIRUS.
OFFICIALS SAY THE MEASURE IS
BEING TAKEN OUT OF AN ABUNDANC
OF CAUTION
>>> AND A PIECE OF OF THE HA
HAS PROVED VALUABLE.
A COLT 45 REVOLVER OWNED B
WYATT EARP AND USED IN THE
SHOOT-OUT IN THE OK CORRAL, SOLD
AT AUCTION THIS WEEK, THE PRICE,
$225,000, 50% HIGHER THA
EXPECTED
♪♪
>> WE WANTED TO FOLLOW-UP ON THE
INTERVIEW JUDY DID LAST NIGH
WITH BEN RHODES ABOUT THE CRISIS
IN UKRAINE
RHODES CALLED ON RUSSIA TO USE
ITS INFLUENCE TO GET PRO-RUSSIAN
DEMONSTRATORS TO LEAVE
GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS THEY'VE
BEEN OCCUPYING
WE'RE JOINED BY TIMOTHY FRYE
FROM COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
RIGHT NOW IT SEEMS RUSSIA IS
USING ITS INFLUENCE TO DO TH
OPPOSITE
>> YEAH, WE'RE NOT SEEING TH
DEMONSTRATORS LEAVE BUILDINGS.
THEY'RE ACTUALLY FLOUTING THIS
AGREEMENT THAT WAS SIGNED IN
GENEVA SAYING WE'RE NOT BOUND BY
IT, WE DIDN'T SIGN IT.
>> AND THERE'S ALSO REPORTS NO
OF TROOPS KIND OF MYSTERIOUS
TROOPS, SIMILAR TO THE ONES THAT
WERE IN CRIMEA, RUSSIA INITIALLY
DEFIED THAT THOSE WERE RUSSIAN
TROOPS
NOW WE SEE THOSE TROOPS IN
EASTERN UKRAINE AND PRESIDEN
PUTIN IS DENYING THAT AS WELL.
>> WE SEE A LARGE BUILD-UP O
RUSSIAN TROOPS ON THE BORDER
IMPORTANT TO KEEP IN MIND THAT
THE DEMONSTRATIONS CAME ONLY
AFTER THERE WAS THIS LARGE
BUILD-UP OF TROOPS ON THE OTHE
SIDE OF THE BORDER
SO I IMAGINE THAT PRO-RUSSIA
MILITIAS ARE LOOKING FOR CUE
FROM MOSCOW FOR THEIR ACTIONS AS
WELL AS TRYING TO DRUM U
SUPPORT LOCALLY.
AND THEY'VE LARGELY BEEN
INEFFECTIVE IN BRINGING PEOPLE
ON TO THEIR STREET
THE MAJ ORT OF PEOPLE UKRAIN
WOULD LIKE TO SEE THE COUNTR
REMAIN WHOLE AND FREE.
>> THE POSSIBILITY OF MORE
SANCTIONS, IS THERE ANY EVIDENCE
THE SANCTIONS WE'VE IMPOSED SO
FAR?
>> THEY ARE WORKING IN THA
THERE IS MUCH GREATE
UNCERTAINTY WITH THE BANKS
BANKS ARE UNWILLING TO LEN
BECAUSE THEY'RE UNCERTAIN ABOU
WHO IS TARGETED HERE
WE HAVE THE NAMES ON THE LIST,
BUT LET'S SAY THE FRIEND O
RELATED COMPANY OF SOMEBODY ON
THE LIST WANTS TO BORROW A
WELL, BANKS ARE AFRAID TO LEND
MONEY TO THEM FOR FEAR OF TRYING
TO BE SEEN AS TRYING TO GE
AROUND THE SANCTIONS
SO WE'VE SEEN 60 BILLION FLY
FROM RUSSIA IN THIS QUARTER.
THE RUSSIAN ECONOMY IS THE SIXTH
LARGEST IN THE WORLD, BUT VERY
CONCENTRATED IN THE NATURA
RESOURCES SECTOR
THE CAPITAL SECTOR COMES FRO
TWO STATE-OWNED BANKS.
SO IN THIS SENSE, RUSSIA I
VULNERABLE
>> WHAT ROLE DOES EUROPE PLAY?
THEY'RE A LARGER TRADING
PARTNER.
ARE THEY WILLING TO MAKE THOSE
CHOICES?
>> GERMANY IS THE IMPORTAN
COUNTRY, GETTING A QUARTER O
ITS ENERGY FROM RUSSIA
ANGELA MERKEL HAS BEEN HARDE
TOWARDS RUSSIA THAN HE
CONSTITUENTS
SO IT WILL BE DIFFICULT TO GET
THE GERMANS TO GO ALONG.
BUT IF WE SEE AGGRESSIVE ACTIO
ON THE PART OF MOSCOW, THERE
WOULD BE A RALLYING AROUND
SANCTIONS IN EUROPE AND IN THE
UNITED STATES.
THE TRICKY PART, THOUGH, IS THAT
IF RUSSIA CONTINUES TO PLAY TH
ROLE THAT IT IS, AND THE
SITUATION IN EASTERN UKRAINE
CONTINUES TO BE UNSTABLE, WHAT
WILL BE THE TRIGGERING EVENT
THAT WOULD ALLOW THE U.S. TO
RALLY THE EUROPEANS TO IMPOS
NEW SANCTIONS AGAINST RUSSIA
>> SO RIGHT NOW THAT TRIGGER
EVENT IS TROOPS CROSSING THE
BORDER
>> WE DON'T KNOW WHAT IT IS.
PART OF THE BARGAINING THAT'
GOING ON IS TRYING TO LET TH
RUSSIANS GUESS, WHAT WOULD B
THE KIND OF ACTIVITIES THA
WOULD INVOKE SANCTIONS
>> ALL RIGHT, TIM FRYE FRO
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY, THANKS SO
MUCH
>> THANK YOU
♪♪
>> NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
A REPORT RELEASED THIS WEEK SAYS
AMERICANS SPEND MORE THAN $300
BILLION A YEAR ON PRESCRIPTION
DRUGS, ABOUT A THOUSAND DOLLAR
PER PERSON
SOME OF THE MOST EXPENSIVE ARE
MEDICATIONS KNOWN AS BIOLOJICS
A RELATIVELY YOUNG AND
REVOLUTIONARY CLASS OF
MEDICINES.
BUT ARE AMERICANS PAYING MOR
THAN THEY NEED TO, WHEN LESS
EXPENSIVE GENERIC VERSIONS O
THESE DRUGS ARE AVAILABLE IN
MANY OTHER COUNTRIES
>> PHILIP DELUCA IS ENJOYING
RETIREMENT AFTER WORKING DECADES
ON A LONG ISLAND RAILROAD.
THE 71-YEAR-OLD STAYS BUSY WIT
HIS TEN GRANDKIDS.
>> GRANDPA'S CREW.
>> LATELY IT'S BEEN DIFFICULT TO
KEEP UP.
>> HOW HAS YOUR ENERGY BEEN?
>> NO.
I CAN'T DO THE THINGS I DID 10
12 YEARS AGO
>> PATRICIA IS HIS WIFE.
>> HE BECAME MORE TIRED,
FRUSTRATED WITH NOT BEING ABLE
TO DO THE THINGS HE COULD DO
BEFORE
>> HIS BONE MARROW WASN'
PRODUCING ENOUGH BLOOD CELLS
AND IF THE LEVELS DIP TOO LOW,
IT COULD BE LIFE-THREATENING
HE HAD TWO CHOICES, BLOO
TRANSFUSIONS OR MEDICATION THA
WOULD BOOST HIS RED BLOOD CELL
COUNT.
HE CHOSE THE MEDICATION.
>> TOO TIRED TO DO THE THING
YOU USED TO DO
>> DELUCA'S MEDICATION IS KNOW
AS A BIOLOGIC.
A RELATIVELY YOUNG AND
REVOLUTIONARY CLASS OF DRUGS
OTHER POPULAR DRUGS ARE EMBREL
USED TO TREAT ARTHRITIS AN
MACULAR DEGENERATION
UNLIKE PILLS MADE FROM
CHEMICALS, THEY'RE MORE COMPLEX,
MADE IN LIVING ORGANISMS
RESULTING IN PROTEINS.
THEY WORK WITH THE BODY TO
NORMALIZE ITS IMMUNE SYSTEM IN A
WAY CHEMICALS DON'T.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT POLICY
AMGEN IS ONE OF THE LARGES
MANUFACTURERS OF BIOLOGIC,
INCLUDING THE DRUG DELUCA TAKES.
>> EVERYONE IS VERY EXCITE
ABOUT WHAT THE FUTURE HOLDS IN
TERMS OF OUR ABILITY TO TREA
DISEASES LIKE HIGH CHOLESTEROL
OR DISEASES LIKE ALZHEIMER'S AND
FIGHTING CANCER.
BUT ALSO FOR DISEASES WHERE
PATIENT WILL HAVE A CHRONIC,
LIFE-LONG DISEASE.
SINCE DELUCA'S CONDITION I
CHRONIC, EVERY MONDAY MORNING HE
GOES TO THE HOSPITAL FOR A
INJECTION.
THE BIOLOGIC MEDICATION HA
HELPED, THE DELUCAS SAY, BUT
IT'S ALSO EXTREMELY EXPENSIVE.
>> WHEN YOU HEARD THE PRICE OF
THE SHOT, CAN YOU TELL US WHAT
YOUR REACTION WAS?
>> I WAS SHOCKED
I WAS AB -- I HAD NO IDEA THAT
THIS COULD COST THIS MUCH.
>> HAD YOU SEEN A MEDICATION
THAT HAS COST THAT MUCH BEFORE
>> NO.
>> ACCORDING TO A BILL DELUC
SHOWED US, A SINGLE INJECTIO
COSTS $1,500
UNDER HIS INSURANCE PLAN, HI
CO-PAY ENDED UP BEING $196
AND REMEMBER, HE WAS GOING T
THE HOSPITAL EVERY WEEK.
SO THE CO-PAY TURNED OUT TO BE
NEARLY $800 A MONTH.
>> IT'S FINANCIALLY DIFFICULT.
WE'RE ON A PENSION
AND $196 A WEEK EXTRA COMING OUT
OF THAT PENSION IS A LOT O
MONEY FOR US
>> CAN YOU AFFORD IT
>> CAN I AFFORD IT
>> I HAVE TO AFFORD IT
I HAVE TO PAY IT
IT'S A BILL.
>> BUT WHY IS IT SO EXPENSIVE?
SOME CRITICS SAY IT'S BECAUS
THERE'S NO SYSTEM IN THIS PLAC
IN THIS COUNTRY THAT WOULD MAK
GENERIC BIOLOGICS AVAILABLE.
BUT THEY ARE SOLD OVERSEAS AND
AT A MUCH LOWER PRICE AND HAVE
BEEN FOR NEARLY EIGHT YEARS.
THERE THEY ARE KNOWN A
BIOSIMILARS.
>> THERE ARE ALREADY BIOSIMILARS
ON THE MARKETPLACE, THE DISCOUNT
IS SOMEWHERE BETWEEN 30 AND 50%.
SO WE'RE TALKING ABOUT TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS OF SAVING
ANNUALLY FOR EACH AND EVER
PATIENT.
>> SO EUROPE IS ALREADY USIN
THESE BIOSIMILARS?
>> MUCH OF THE WORLD IS WA
AHEAD OF US.
SO JAPAN, CANADA, MUCH OF EUROPE
ALREADY HAS BIOSIMILARS IN THEIR
MARKETPLACE, AND PATIENTS AR
ALREADY BENEFITTING FROM BOT
THE GREAT PRODUCTS AND THE
DISCOUNT
>> STEVE MILLER IS THE CHIEF
MEDICAL OFFICER AT EXPRESS
SCRIPTS WHICH NEGOTIATES PRICE
WITH PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES.
>> PATIENTS LIKE DELUCA AR
FORCED TO PAY MUCH MORE FO
THEIR BIOLOGICS BECAUSE THERE'
NO COMPETITION IN THE U.S.
IN EUROPE, THERE ARE AT LEAS
FIVE VERSIONS OF DELUCA'
BIOLOGIC, WHERE, ACCORDING T
MANUFACTURERS, THEY ARE SOLD FOR
UP TO 30% LESS THAN THE BRAN
NAME BIOLOGIC.
SO WHY AREN'T LESS EXPENSIVE
VERSIONS OF DELUCA'S DRUG OR ANY
BIOSIMILARS AVAILABLE IN THI
COUNTRY?
THAT'S BECAUSE WHEN CONGRESS
PASSED THE HATCH-WAXMAN BILL 3
YEARS AGO CREATING GENERIC
DRUGS, BIOLOGICS BARELY EXISTED.
>> IF THEY COULD BE SOLD, WOUL
PEOPLE HAVE ACCESS TO SOMETHIN
THEY DON'T HAVE ACCESS TO NO
BECAUSE IT'S TOO EXPENSIVE
>> JUST LIKE WHEN YOU USE
GENERIC DRUG AND YOU HAVE A $4
PAYMENT OR $10 PAYMENT, THE SAME
THING WOULD HAPPEN WIT
BIOLOJICS, YOU'D HAVE A MUCH
LOWER CO-PAY
>> IN 2009, THE FEDERAL TRAD
COMMISSION REACHED A SIMILAR
CONCLUSION
COMPETITION MEANS LOWER PRICES
HE SAYS HIS COMPANY IS OPEN TO
COMPETITION, BUT CAUTIONS THAT
BIOSIMILARS CANNOT BE APPROACHED
THE SAME WAY AS TRADITIONA
DRUGS.
>> THEY'RE DIFFERENT
THERE'S A DIFFERENCE IN DRUG
AND CHEMICALS.
THE PREVAILING THOUGHT IS THAT
GENERICS ARE THE SAME AN
THEY'RE THE SAME AS THE BRAN
MEDICINE
IN THE FUTURE WORLD, BECAUSE
THEY'RE EXPRESSED IN LIVIN
CELLS, EACH MEDICINE WILL HAVE
ITS OWN PARTICULAR PROFILE
>> THAT MEANS BIOSIMILARS WILL
NEVER BE IDENTICAL TO TH
ORIGINAL BIOLOGIC.
ACCORDING TO THE NEW ENGLAND
JOURNAL OF MEDICINE, GIVEN THE
COMPLEX NATURE OF BIOLOGICS,
IT'S UNLIKELY A ONE SIZE FIT
ALL CAN BE DEVELOPED
BUT PEOPLE THINK THEY SHOULD
LOOK TO THE EUROPEAN UNION AS
MODEL.
THEIR AGENCY HAS BEEN APPROVIN
BIOSIMILARS THERE FOR EIGH
YEARS.
>> THERE'S NOT BEEN A SINGLE
EPISODE WITH A BIOSIMILAR IN
EUROPE THAT HAS RISEN TO THE
POINT OF CONCERN
AND THEY'VE HAD A GREAT TRAC
RECORD
>> IN AN E-MAIL TO NEWS HOUR,
SPOKESPERSON FOR THE EUROPEA
MEDICINES AGENCY WROTE
BIOCOLORS HAVE A GOOD SAFETY
RECORD SINCE INTRODUCTION IN
STILL, IKE SAYS NEW PROCEDURES
HAVE TO BE IN PLACE BEFORE
BIOSIMILARS HIT THE U.S. MARKET.
>> YOU REALLY HAVE TO HAVE A
PROGRAM IN PLACE THAT GETS THE
FROM THE LAW THAT ENABLES THEM
TO BE APPROVED, TO THE FDA
APPROVAL, TO THE WAY THA
THEY'RE GOING TO BE USED I
HEALTH CARE.
>> THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
PASSED IN 2010, AUTHORIZED THE
FDA TO SET UP AN APPROVA
PROCESS FOR BIOSIMILARS.
BUT IN THE FOUR YEARS SINCE, NOT
A SINGLE BIOSIMILAR HAS HIT TH
U.S. MARKET.
WHAT'S TAKING THE FDA SO LONG?
>> IN AN E-MAIL TO THE NEWS HOUR
AN FD SPOKESPERSON WROTE
CONGRESS SET A HIGH BAR FOR
BIOSIMILAR PRODUCT APPROVAL.
THEY HAVE TO MEET THE STANDARD
OF SAFETY, EFFICACY AND HIGH
QUALITY THAT EVERYONE EXPECT
AND COUNTS ON.
BUT MILLER SAYS THE FDA HAS BEEN
IMPEDED BY BIOLOGIC COMPANIE
THAT HAVE LOBBIED CONGRESS T
STALL COMPETITION.
HE SAYS THE STRATEGY IS DESIGNED
TO PROTECT THE HUGE PROFITS THEY
MAKE OFF THEIR BIOLOGIC DRUGS.
>> IF YOU THINK ABOUT JUST ONE
DRUG MADE BY AMGEN, THEI
PROFITS A MONTH ARE OVER $10
MILLION.
THAT PRODUCT CAME ON THE MARKE
IN 1989.
>> IKE SAYS THE HIGH PRICE O
BIOLOGICS IS JUSTIFIED
>> THEY ARE EXPENSIVE TO
MANUFACTURE.
THE WORKFORCE IS MADE UP O
Ph.D. SCIENTISTS WHO ON A DAIL
BASIS ARE MANAGING THE
PRODUCTION OF THESE MEDICINES.
SO THERE'S A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT
OF INVESTMENT THAT GOES INTO
MAKING AND MANUFACTURING HIG
QUALITY BIOLOGIC MEDICINE.
>> SOME PEOPLE SAY AMGEN IS ABLE
TO CHARGE $50,000 A YEAR FOR A
PARTICULAR MEDICATION BECAUSE IT
CAN.
BECAUSE IT'S ABLE TO
THERE'S NO REGULATION.
AND WHEN THOSE ISSUES COME UP, A
COMPANY LIKE AMGEN HAS BEEN VERY
SUCCESSFUL AT LOBBYING T
PREVENT ANY MOVEMENT IN TERMS OF
PRICE.
>> I'M JUST NOT FAMILIAR WIT
ANY OF THE PRICING INFORMATION
BUT WHAT I CAN TELL YOU IS THA
WE'RE A COMPANY THAT'S FOCUSED
ON THE FUTURE.
SO IF THERE ARE REVENUES HERE,
WE WANT TO INVEST IN CLINICA
STUDIES FOR NEW CLINICAL TRIAL
AND FOR NEW MEDICINES.
>> IKE SAYS IF THE COMPANY WER
SO AGAINST BIOSIMILARS, IT
WOULDN'T HAVE ITS OWN PLANS TO
START SELLING THEM
>> ONE OF THE POINTS AMGEN MAKES
IS THEY TOO ARE GETTING INTO THE
BIOSIMILAR MARKETPLACE
THEY DON'T SEE ANYTHING THEY'R
DOING AS A ROADBLOCK TO GETTIN
BIOSIMILARS ON THE MARKET.
IS THAT FAIR
>> THE REALITY IS THAT THE
ACTUALLY ARE WELL POSITIONED T
MAKE BIOSIMILARS, BUT THEY
PROBABLY MAKE MORE ON THEI
BRANDED PRODUCT THAN THEIR
BIOSIMILAR
SO IT MAKES SENSE EVERY MONT
THEY CAN DELAY, MAKES A LOT OF
MONEY FOR THEM
>> NOW, THESE MEDICINES THAT
WOULD BE VERY SIMILAR TO THE ONE
YOU'RE TAKING WOULD REQUIRE THAT
THE FDA AND THE REGULATORY
PROCESS AND THE STATE AND TH
COMPANIES MOVE VERY SLOWLY T
MAKE SURE THAT THESE ARE SAFE.
ISN'T THAT WHAT WE WANT?
>> HOW LONG DOES IT TAKE
>> AND IF THEY ARE BEING USED IN
EUROPE, IF THEY'RE STILL
STANDING AND IF THEY'RE STIL
SURVIVING, AND IF THEY'RE IN
BETTER SHAPE, THEN OBVIOUSLY I
MUST BE WORKING, AND IT MUST B
SAFE
>> DELUCA'S DOCTOR RECENTLY AD
ANOTHER BIOLOGIC DRUG TO HIS
TREATMENT REGIMEN.
HE'S WAITING TO FIND OUT HOW
MUCH THAT WILL COST HIM.
>>> WATCH OUR EARLIER REPORT
ABOUT THE HIGH COST OF SOM
GENERIC DRUGS.
VISIT NEWS HOUR PBS.ORG.
>>> ANOTHER STORY THAT CAUGH
OUR ATTENTION, WORD OF A
PIONEERING CLINICAL TRIAL FO
PATIENTS WITH ADVANCED LUN
CANCER
IT'S HOW MANY DRUGS THAT ARE
BEING USED AND HOW THEY'RE BEING
TARGETED
SO WHAT ARE THEY DOING IN THE UK
WITH THIS CLINICAL TRIAL
WHAT'S SO INTERESTING ABOUT IT
>> THEY ARE TAKING A DISCOVERY
THAT WAS MADE HERE ALMOST TE
YEARS AGO NOW, WHERE SPECIFI
GENES ARE DAMAGED IN LUN
TUMORS, AND THE DAMAGE BROUGHT
ON BY THOSE GENES MAKES THOS
CANCER CELLS VERY SUSCEPTIBLE TO
MEDICATION
SO IF YOU FIND ONE OF THES
GENETIC CHANGES AND GIVE A
PATIENT A DRUG TARGETING THAT,
ALMOST SURELY THEIR CANCER WIL
SHRINK AND NORMAL TISSUES AR
NOT AFFECTED
IT'S EXACTLY WHAT ONCOLOGIST
HOPE TO DO
WHAT THEY'RE DOING IN THE UK I
DEVELOPING A NATIONWIDE PROGRA
PARTNERING WITH PHARMACEUTICAL
COMPANIES THAT ARE DEVELOPERS OF
THE DRUGS, TO DO THE TESTING I
A MUCH MORE GENERALIZED WAY, AND
TO TEST FOR MANY OF THES
DIFFERENT GENE MUTATIONS AT TH
SAME TIME.
SO IN ESSENCE, A PATIENT MIGHT
HAVE TEN CHANCES TO FIND
SOMETHING IN THE TUMOR THAT'S IN
THEIR BODY, TEN CHANCES TO GET A
MEDICATION
AND ALSO THE PHARMACEUTICA
COMPANY SUPPLYING DRUGS TO G
ALONG WITH THE DISCOVERY O
THOSE GENETIC MARKERS IN HELPING
INDIVIDUAL PATIENTS.
>> THAT'S DIFFERENT BECAUS
WE'RE USED TO TRIALS THAT'S ON
DRUG AT A TIME OR ONE GENE AT
TIME
>> EXACTLY
WHEN EVERYONE GOT THE ONE,
SOMETIMES IT HELPED, SOMETIMES
IT DIDN'T.
WE ALWAYS WANTED TO KNOW WHA
MAKES AN INDIVIDUAL'S CANCER
SHRINK OR NOT.
THIS GENETIC INFORMATION IS
WAY WE CAN DO THIS, PERSONALIZED
MEDICINE, RIGHT DRUG FOR THE
RIGHT PATIENT.
>> SO IF THIS TRIAL HAPPEN
SUCCESSFULLY IN THE UK, DOES I
MEAN IT CAN HAPPEN HERE ON A
LARGER SCALE IN THE U.S.
>> IT'S HAPPENING ALL OVER THE
WORLD.
14 HOSPITALS HERE DID SOMETHIN
VERY MUCH LIKE THIS.
THERE ARE PROGRAMS IN FRANCE A
WELL
IT'S A WORLDWIDE MOVEMENT.
THE FACT THAT THE UK IS DOIN
IT, THEY'RE A LITTLE SOMETIMES
SLOWER TO EMBRACE NE
TECHNOLOGIES AND NEW DRUGS, AN
THE FACT THAT THEY'RE DOING IT
SAYS THAT THIS TECHNOLOGY, THI
IDEA IS BECOMING MORE AND MORE
MAINSTREAM
IT'S REALLY GOING TO ACCELERAT
PROGRESS
>> SO, TELL ME ABOUT HOW THIS IS
GOING TO MAKE THIS LARGER SHIFT,
IN TERMS OF PERSONALIZED
MEDICINE, ALMOST ON A GENETI
LEVEL, TARGETING EACH PATIEN
WITH THE SPECIFIC DRUG THA
COULD CURE THEIR CANCER.
>> SO THE WAY IT'S HAPPENING NOW
IS THAT WHEN THE CANCER IS FIRST
DISCOVERED, THESE GENETIC TEST
ARE DONE
IN THE PANEL AT SLOAN-KETTERING,
WE TEST FOR 340 DIFFERENT GENES.
THEN WHAT WE TRY TO DO IS FIND
THE DRUGS THAT ARE MOST LIKELY
TO HELP THE PERSON WHOSE CANCE
IS DRIVEN BY THESE GENES
THESE GENES MAKE A CANCER CELL
HORRIBLY DEPENDENT THAT THES
GENES PRODUCE.
ACHILLES HEEL HAS BEEN THE TER
THAT HAS BEEN USED
SO IF YOU CAN GO AFTER THAT, THE
CANCER CELLS DIE
AND THESE DRUGS ARE MUCH LES
DISRUPTIVE TO NORMAL PEOPLE.
IF YOU KNOW THIS PERSON'S CANCER
CELLS DON'T HAVE THIS MEDICINE
THEN WE WOULDN'T RECOMMEND THA
MEDICINE TO A PATIENT.
PREVIOUSLY IT WAS ONE SIZE FIT
ALL.
EVERY PERSON WITH THE ILLNES
GOT THE SAME MEDICINE.
>> DOCTOR, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU
♪♪
>> THIS IS "PBS NEWS HOU
WEEKEND" SATURDAY.
>> FROM ITV NEWS TONIGHT,
REPORT ABOUT A PRACTICE THAT HAS
MADE ITS WAY FROM AFRICA T
AFRICAN IMMIGRANT COMMUNITIES IN
BRITAIN.
IT'S CALLED BREAST IRONING
DESIGNS TO MAKE DEVELOPING
TEENAGE GIRLS LESS DESIRABLE
WE SPOKE TO ONE VICTIM WHO HAS
ENDURED THE RITUAL AND ITS
AFTERMATH.
>> KOREEN IS A VICTIM OF BREAS
IRONING CARRIED OUT IN CAMEROON,
IT'S SAID TO BE COMMON THERE, TO
DETER MALE ATTENTION
>> THEY PUT THE SPATULA ON THE
FIRE, THEN PUT IT ON THE BREAST,
TO PRESS THE BREAST IN
THEN YOU TAKE A BINDING AND TI
IT AROUND THE CHEST, SO THE HEAT
STAYS IN FOR TWO TO THROW DAYS
>> SHE CLAIMS THE PRACTICE I
HAPPENING IN BRITAIN ACROS
AFRICAN COMMUNITIES.
THE VICTIMS ARE TOO YOUNG,
LOYAL, OR FRIGHTENED TO REPORT
IT
>> AT THE END OF THE DAY, IT
DISFIGURES YOU AS A PERSON
>> A DOCTOR IN LONDON HA
ORGANIZED TRAINING TO HELP
OTHERS SPOT THE SIGNS.
IT CAN LEAD TO ABSCESSES, TISSUE
DAMAGE, AND EVEN CAUSE BREASTS
TO DISAPPEAR
>> IT CAN BE REALLY SERIOU
PHYSICAL EFFECTS OF THIS
POUNDING OF THE BREAST AND
DAMAGING THE YOUNG BREAST.
AND OF COURSE THE PSYCHOLOGICA
EFFECTS OF A CHILD BEING INJURED
BY THEIR MOTHER WHO SAYS IT'
FOR THEIR OWN GOOD CAN LEAVE
LASTING PSYCHOLOGICA
CONSEQUENCES
>> THE POLICE SAY IT'S CHILD
ABUSE.
HOW FAR OR EXACTLY WHY IT MIGH
HAVE TRAVELED IS UNCLEAR
BUT CAMPAIGNERS SAY THERE'S NO
ROOM FOR CULTURAL SENSITIVITIES.
IT'S SIMPLY ANOTHER CRIM
AGAINST GIRLS AND WOMEN THAT
NEEDS TO BE STOPPED.
♪♪
>> JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLINE
TOMORROW
MAKING SENSE OF THE SHOWDOWN
BETWEEN RUSSIA AND UKRAINE
THE LONG COMPLICATED HISTORY
THAT LED UP TO THE CURRENT
CRISIS
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION O
PBS NEW HOURS WEEKEND.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.
>> HE'S NOW A CANADIAN